<HTML>
<HEAD>
<META HTTP-EQUIV="Content-Type" CONTENT="text/html; charset=windows-1252">
<META NAME="Generator" CONTENT="Microsoft Word 97">
<TITLE>Catalogers Group Minutes </TITLE>
</HEAD>
<BODY LINK="#0000ff">

<FONT FACE="Arial" SIZE=3><P>Catalogers Group Minutes </P>
<P>May 10, 2001</P>

<P>Present:   John Riemer, Beth Feinberg, Caroline Miller, Elie Chammou, Janice Matthiesen, Angela Riggio, Jeff Morehead, Joan LoPear, Louise  Ratliff, Ren&eacute;e McBride, Valerie Bross, Jean Rashedi (recorder)</P>

<P>The meeting consisted of reports from Caroline and Valerie on the Program for Cooperative Cataloging (including BIBCO, CONSER, NACO and SACO)  at the Library of Congress last week.   </P>

<P>(See conference notes below very kindly provided by Caroline and Valerie.)</P>

<P>For program agendas see: </P>
</FONT><FONT SIZE=2><P></FONT><A HREF="http://www.loc.gov/catdir/pcc/bibco/agenda01.html"><FONT SIZE=2>http://www.loc.gov/catdir/pcc/bibco/agenda01.html</FONT></A></P>
<FONT SIZE=2><P></FONT><A HREF="http://www.loc.gov/acq/conser/opagenda2001.html"><FONT SIZE=2>http://www.loc.gov/acq/conser/opagenda2001.html</FONT></A></P>
<FONT FACE="Arial" SIZE=3>
<P>&nbsp;</P>
<P>For program and reports see: </FONT><A HREF="http://www.loc.gov/catdir/pcc"><FONT SIZE=2>http://www.loc.gov/catdir/pcc</FONT></A></P>
<FONT FACE="Arial" SIZE=3>
<P>Highlights of our meeting:</P>
<P>- AACR2 Rev. Chapter 9 is at the printers; Rev. Chapter 12 is likely to be published in 2002. </P>

<P>- MARC formats revisions are being worked on, but no date of publication announced.</P>

<P>- Captioning of series numbering in 4xx field will be based on on the RI 1.6G. Numbering within series.</P>

<P>- OCLC may be able to generate unique numbers for 010 fields for institutions cataloging integrated resources as is currently done for authority records</P>

<P>- U.S. Newspapers Project will be finished within the next five years with most states being completed in the next three years</P>

<P>- Participants manual is out for revision with all comments and suggestions welcomed by Carol Hixson   </FONT><A HREF="http://darkwing.uoregon.edu/~chixson/bibco/outlinerev.html"><FONT SIZE=2>http://darkwing.uoregon.edu/~chixson/bibco/outlinerev.html</FONT></A></P>
<FONT FACE="Arial" SIZE=3>
<P>&nbsp;</P>
<P>- A BIBCO CORE record survey has been made, with Renee McBride          participating from UCLA </FONT><A HREF="http://www.loc.gov/catdir/pcc/bibco/coretudeprelim.html"><FONT SIZE=2>http://www.loc.gov/catdir/pcc/bibco/coretudeprelim.html</FONT></A></P>
<FONT FACE="Arial" SIZE=3>
<P>- NACO FAQs are very useful and will be maintained as a document</P>

<P>- We may get BIBCO training later this year, at which time we would be issued the BIBCO manual       </P>

<P>Our next meeting, planned for May 17, 2:30-3:20, will be in the YRL  West Classroom.  </P>

<P>&nbsp;</P>
<P>__________________________________________________________________ Valerie's notes:</P>

<P>Catalogers Group May 10, 2001</P>

<P>The 2001 Annual CONSER Meeting lasted 3 days, May 2nd through May 4th.  The first &amp; last days were devoted to CONSER issues; the middle day was a joint  BIBCO/CONSER meeting.</P>

<P>During the morning first day, long-time CONSER participants, LC staff, and the OCLC representative (Robert Bremer) introduced themselves and discussed aspects of how CONSER works. In the afternoon, the attendees split up into small groups, to discuss various issues of interest, such as:  e-resource management, the SCCTP program, and cataloging issues.</P>

<P>The second day was a joint BIBCO/CONSER meeting. Les Hawkins opened the day with a warm-up session regarding the various metadata schemes in use at various institutions. </P>

<P>[Caroline reported on intervening sessions]</P>

<P>Implementing Integration Resources: vb thanked participants on this task group  (John Wright, Jean Hirons, Ana Cristan, Robert Bremer, Charlene Chou, Rebecca Culbertson, Ed Glazier, Dajin Sun, and Iris Wolley) and summarized the group's activities.  Jean Hirons then led a discussion on the three basic issues to consider:  (1) Standards and documentation; (2) Maintenance of records; and  (3) Distribution (or re-distribution) of records.</P>

<P>The third day was devoted to CONSER issues. First, Jean Hirons led a discussion on certain aspects of MARBI proposals and AACR2 revisions. Next, Harriman reported on the US Newspaper project. After that, Lucy Barron reviewed progress on data entry of publication patterns in 891 fields; Elmer Klebbs demonstrated Robert Bremer's macro for creation of 891 fields. Then, attendees discussed various issues related to linking. This discussion was followed by the introduction of a pilot to see whether an OCLC-hosted PURL server would be beneficial. Finally, Jean Hirons led a follow-up to a visioning exercise held at ALA midwinter.</P>

<P>______________________________________________________________ </P>
<P>Caroline's notes:</P>

<P>BIBCO/CONSER Operations Committee Meeting (joint meeting) May 3, 2001</P>

<P>A. Warm-up discussion: Metadata, your library, and the PCC - VB</P>

<P>Utilities update and reporting from the PCC wish list Ed Glazier of RLG spoke first.  He did not say much.  He only addressed 4 questions that applied to RLIN.  One of the things on the wish list was SACO and classification workflow online in the utilities.  EG said it wouldn't be worth RLG's development time.</P>

<P>Cynthia Whitacre (BIBCO rep for OCLC): 1) Validation of headings - Firstsearch and CORC already support this.  NACO functionality is being added to CORC.  Issue of undifferentiated personal names. 2) Record distribution - OCLC is concerned with the equity of quantity of exchange. 3) Batch loading - issue of overlaying.  Currently classification and subject headings are retained. 4) SACO and classification should be under LC's control.  There are credits already for adding call numbers. 5) BFM - working toward linked authorities, hoping for global update. 6) Series numbering - will consider, if changing anyway (new RI) 7) Ability to import records from remote databases using Z39.50. - OCLC is working on that with PICA Dutch authorities database. 8) More search capabilities of the MARC21 tagging including 007/008 fields - What do we want to see indexed? 9) The ability to see all in process authority records in OCLC as members can in RLIN - OCLC used to do that in LSP and records got left in limbo, possibility for confusion. 10) Retain a user-friendly interface - can't do anything to jeopardize productivity.  Developers of Integrated Metadata Desktop (IMD). 11) Bigger records - CORC has already removed size limits.</P>

<P>CONSER (Robert Bremer) 1) Validation - NSDP/ISSN link.  Using PURL server to keep track of URL's outside of bib record.  2) Glenn Patton announced they are looking for commercially available databases to support Worldcat.</P>

<P>Update on AACR2 revision and MARBI proposals</P>

<P>Chapter 12 "Continuing Resources" - Serials and Integrating Resources. </P>
<P>MARBI - BibLvl I </P>
<P>Which 008 - serials or mono?  Consensus at the meeting was Serial </P>
<P>Repeatable 260 fields.</P>

<P>Standing Committee on Training (Carol Hixson) </P>

<P>Working on BIBCO Participants Manual.  SACO Participants Manual is done.   Reported on different task groups: Educational Needs of the Cataloging Community - TG endorsed the SCCTP model.  Should PCC be more involved in doing basic cataloging training?  Yes per SCCTP model.  Library schools aren't doing it.</P>

<P>BIBCO Operations Committee</P>

<P>Integrating Resources - round robin.  OCLC just implemented 856 change notification.  Lines are blurring between monographs and serials catalogers.  CH - Are we willing to take responsibility for maintenance of integrating resources - loose-leafs as well as web sites?  Challenge of linking across the formats.  Maintenance will not be as daunting as we expect.   Karen Calhoun of Cornell - they will possibly be using DC to catalog this material.  KC feels that TG report is based on false assumptions.   Pre-supposes one file.  Too focused on Worldcat in its present form - ignores CORC, library portals.  Cataloging is morphing.  OCLC needs to have an incentive to maintain these records.  Important to provide documentation and training for cataloging integrating resources.</P>

<P>Core record study - David Banush report.  Managers = those who set policy.  Mentality of "not in my backyard" People are happy to use core for  copy cataloging.  Cornell has no quantitative data re time savings with core record.  Marketing.     </P>

<P>&nbsp;</P>
<P>&nbsp;</P>
<P> </P></FONT></BODY>
</HTML>
