<html>
<head>
<title>Catalogers Group Minutes May 9, 2002</title>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=iso-8859-1">
</head>

<body bgcolor="#FFFFFF" text="#000000">
Catalogers Group Minutes<br>
May 9, 2002<br>
2:30-3:30 West Electronic (Media) Classroom
<p>Present: Gia Aivazian, Sharon Benamou, Valerie Bross, Beth Feinberg, Joan LoPear, 
  Janice Matthiesen, Ren&eacute;e McBride, Luiz Mendes, Jeff Morehead, Nancy Norris, 
  Paul Priebe, Louise Ratliff, John Riemer, Angela Riggio, Rita Stumps.</p>
<p>BIBCO/CONSER joint meeting, May 2, 2002 (Ren&eacute;e)</p>
<p>I. CPSO update by Barbara Tillett, head of CPSO (Cataloging Policy &amp; Support 
  Office)<br>
  A. CPSO and IFLA are working together on several projects dealing with international 
  standards:<br>
  1. bibliographic description<br>
  2. planning a 2003 meeting of international cataloging experts to look at possibilities 
  for an <br>
  international cataloging code<br>
  3. a virtual international authority file </p>
<p>B. Jennifer Bowen (Head of Technical Services, Eastman School of Music Sibley 
  Library) is heading a group dealing with format variation.</p>
<p>C. Strategic planning is going on regarding the future of AACR.</p>
<p>D. ALA will publish the latest AACR revisions in loose-leaf format with standard-size 
  paper and holes. Will appear late summer 2002.</p>
<p>E. LCRI's<br>
  1. Sept. 1, 2002 is the target date for the release of Ch. 3 (cartographic materials) 
  and Ch. 12 <br>
  (integrating resources).<br>
  2. May 6-Sept. 1: revisions will be made that will be posted Sept. 1 on CPSO's 
  public website,<br>
  and published in fall 2002.<br>
  3. 2002 LCRI amendments are hoped to be published in late summer 2002. Include 
  changes to <br>
  Ch. 1, 21 and 25, and the completely redone Ch. 12.</p>
<p>F. CPSO Products<br>
  1. LC classification schedules are now completed. K is done and includes four 
  new subsets for <br>
  religious law: KBR (canon law), KBU (Catholic law), KBM (Jewish law), KPP (Islamic 
  law).<br>
  [I checked Cataloger's Desktop and found KBR and KBU, but not KBM and KPP.]<br>
  2. Classification Web will be released on June 1. Features include: <br>
  &quot; Full text of classification schedules, including G cutters for geographic 
  areas<br>
  &quot; LC Subject Headings<br>
  &quot; Correlations between LCSH and the classification schedules<br>
  &quot; Automatic calculation of table numbers<br>
  &quot; Ability to insert permanent personal and institutional notes into the 
  schedules.<br>
  For more info, see: www.loc.gov/cds</p>
<p>II. OCLC update (Robert Bremer)<br>
  A. Generally, continuing work on moving to the new system.</p>
<p>B. MARC Update #2: Info about the repeatable 260 and Bib Code Lvl &quot;i&quot; 
  (for integrating resources) will appear no sooner than July 2003. Less difficult 
  updates will appear later this year.</p>
<p>III. Training session on integrating resources (presented by Steven Miller, 
  UW-Milwaukee)<br>
  Miller's Power Point presentation, which is a draft and deals more with principles 
  than details, will be posted to the BIBCO website ( <a href="http://www.loc.gov/catdir/pcc/bibco.html">http://www.loc.gov/catdir/pcc/bibco.html</a> 
  ). Since you'll be able to view the presentation on your own, I'll stick to 
  highlights:<br>
  A. MARC 21 format changes (Bib Code Lvl &quot;i&quot;) have been published, 
  but not yet implemented by OCLC. This means that we catalog IR's as monographs 
  until implementation.</p>
<p>B. The definition of an integrating resource is: [cf. p. 26 of presentation].</p>
<p>C. Some IR rules and MARC fields come from serials cataloging. These will apply 
  mostly to loose-leaf publications, but can conceivably apply to electronic resources, 
  so we'll need to learn and be aware of them. We have experience incorporating 
  a serials field into monographic cataloging, i.e., the 246. It may have seemed 
  strange at first, but we're used to it now, and the same will surely be true 
  with IR's.</p>
<p>D. Cataloging overview: what will be new and different<br>
  1. AACR2: We'll use Ch. 12 for all IR's, plus any other chapters relevant to 
  the predominant <br>
  type of resource content, e.g. a cartographic website would use Ch. 3 &amp; 
  9.<br>
  2. &quot;Integrated entry&quot; cataloging is the most radical change. This 
  means that the bibliographic<br>
  description will change over time to reflect the latest iteration of the resource 
  (like &quot;latest<br>
  entry&quot; cataloging of serials). [cf. p. 9 for more info]<br>
  3. MARC tagging using what have historically been serials fields:<br>
  &quot; 247 = former title<br>
  &quot; 310 = frequency of updates (most relevant for loose-leaf publications)<br>
  &quot; 321 = former frequency<br>
  &quot; 362 1_ = dates of publication not from first or last iteration of the 
  resource<br>
  &quot; 547 = former title complexity note<br>
  &quot; 550 = issuing body information<br>
  4. Subject headings should be broad enough to encompass changing subject content.</p>
<p>Once Miller's presentation is on the BIBCO website, if you find something that 
  you believe differs from AACR standards, let Valerie or me know and we'll pass 
  along the information.</p>
<p>IV. LCRI PCC option decisions (led by Judy Kuhagen)<br>
  On April 23 we received an e-mail from John containing questions regarding PCC 
  practice for several LCRI's. These questions, as well as 2 others, were voted 
  on by attendees at the joint BIBCO/CONSER meeting. I'll report on those votes 
  here, as well as include related comments that came up at the next day's BIBCO 
  Operations Committee, which opened with Ana Crist&aacute;n (head of BIBCO) leading 
  a follow-up discussion on these votes.</p>
<p>A. Bibliographic relationships involving integrating resources: How will those 
  relationships be expressed in bibliographic records?</p>
<p>OPTIONS:<br>
  1. Follow LC practice: no reciprocal linking notes on bib records representing 
  relationships between IR's. Instead, a bibliographic history note and, when 
  appropriate, a related work added entry.<br>
  2. Follow revised rule 12.7B8 (not yet published): give reciprocal linking notes 
  on both bib records (following serials practice).</p>
<p>VOTE: Follow revised rule 12.7B8.</p>
<p>BIBCO meeting comments: This may be an unfortunate case where LC and PCC practices 
  will differ. Judy Kuhagen will try to get LC to revisit the issue.</p>
<p>B. &quot;Item described&quot; note for IR's: For remote access resources, should 
  previous &quot;viewed on&quot; information be retained in the record when more 
  current information is added?</p>
<p>OPTIONS:<br>
  1. Follow revised rule 12.7B23 (and LC practice): replace existing &quot;viewed 
  on&quot; information<br>
  with current &quot;viewed on&quot; information when updating the record.<br>
  2. Establish a different PCC practice.</p>
<p>VOTE: Follow revised rule 12.7B23.</p>
<p>C. Uniform titles for integrating resources: Should the policy for IR's be 
  the same as the policy for serials or as for monographs as stated in LCRI 25.5B, 
  which has not been revised?</p>
<p>OPTIONS: <br>
  1. Follow LC practice: apply 25.5B for monographs.<br>
  2. Follow serial practice and create a UT with a qualifier whenever there is 
  a conflict.</p>
<p>VOTE: Follow LC practice.</p>
<p>BIBCO meeting comments: group agreed with vote to follow LC practice, but wants 
  to hold off implementing it until a CONSER decision is made about ???????????? 
</p>
<p>D. &quot;Item described&quot; note for multipart items: Should a &quot;latest 
  issue consulted&quot; note be given on the collected set bibliographic record 
  for a multipart item and then updated each time a later part is received?</p>
<p>OPTIONS:<br>
  1. Follow LC practice: do not include a &quot;latest issue consulted&quot; note; 
  the angle brackets in the 300 will indicate all parts consulted. (LC puts holdings 
  info in the bib record.)<br>
  2. Give a &quot;latest issue consulted&quot; note and update it when a later 
  part is received.</p>
<p>VOTE: None of the above. The vote was that there be no PCC statement on practice 
  and that this be decided on an institution-by-institution basis. This will be 
  clarified in the BIBCO Participants' Manual, which will differentiate between 
  LCRI's and LC practice. </p>
<p>E. Introductory words and titles proper for motion pictures/videorecordings: 
  Will PCC libraries apply the second paragraph of rule 1.1B1 when cataloging 
  motion pictures/videorecordings? (Rule: Do not transcribe words that serve as 
  an introduction and are not intended to be part of the title &#133;) </p>
<p>Related question: Does PCC want to retain LCRI 7.1B1 as a statement of PCC 
  practice? (LCRI: When credits for performer, author, director, producer, &quot;presenter,&quot; 
  etc., precede or follow the title in the chief source, in general do not consider 
  them as part of the title proper, even though the language used integrates the 
  credits with the title.) </p>
<p>OPTIONS:<br>
  1. Apply rule 1.1B1 to motion pictures, videorecordings, electronic resources, 
  and popular journals.<br>
  2. Expand the above practice to materials covered by other chapters.<br>
  3. Restrict the above practice.</p>
<p>VOTE: Apply the rule and expand it to include at least cartographic materials. 
  Reissue LCRI 7.1B1 as a statement of PCC practice, with wording that gives guidance, 
  but leaves leeway.</p>
<p>BIBCO meeting comment: Apply LCRI 1.1B1 with the proviso that no Ch. 25 (UT's) 
  rules are broken in the process.</p>
<p>F. Should the option in revised rule 1.4F8 be applied to supply a beginning 
  and/or ending date when the first and/or last iteration is not available? </p>
<p>OPTIONS:<br>
  1. Follow LC practice: do not give beginning and/or ending date if first and/or 
  last iteration is not available.<br>
  2. Follow LC practice for serials, but not for IR's and multipart items (with 
  some guidelines).</p>
<p>VOTE: No decision made. There was much discussion about the implications of 
  applying different practices to serials and IR's. [VB want to say something 
  here?] Jean Hirons, Ana Crist&aacute;n and Judy Kuhagen will write an explanation 
  of the issues, with examples and discussing pros and cons, to appear in late 
  May.</p>
<p>G. Relates to MARC 21, not cataloging rules. It's important that there be a 
  common understanding about the MARC field used for notes on title variations 
  other than a change in title proper. Decisions was made to use the 246 for all 
  title variations other than a change in title proper, as opposed to using a 
  247 (former title)/547 (former title complexity note) combination.</p>
<p>V. Robert Bremer of OCLC talked about an OCLC model for future expansion of 
  authorities contribution, noting that everything is subject to change and OCLC 
  wants feedback.</p>
<p>Bremer began with a brief history of OCLC authority control. Noting that 1994 
  is the last time global changes were made. He discussed what types of functionality 
  are needed in conjunction with OCLC's new platform:<br>
  &quot; automatic global correction<br>
  &quot; need for links between bib records and authority records<br>
  &quot; there is great interest in having multiple authority files (e.g. name, 
  series, subject) with links between files<br>
  &quot; have individual libraries participate in file maintenance.<br>
  A big idea OCLC is batting around right now is of deriving authority records 
  from bib records when there is no NACO record. Possibilities include:<br>
  &quot; having a default to display only the parts of an authority record one 
  wants <br>
  &quot; do merging to avoid duplicate records<br>
  &quot; have an 042 code to clearly flag a record as derived, not NACO<br>
  &quot; Since LCCN's are needed for local use, perhaps assign LCCN's with a new 
  prefix as another way of flagging derived records.<br>
  &quot; 670 quoting OCLC bib control #<br>
  &quot; 910's recording every form found in the bibliographic file, not all of 
  which will be in 4xx fields, which must follow NACO standards. Here's where 
  a default to suppress display of the 910's might be desirable.</p>
<p>Discussion:<br>
  &quot; Would Dublin Core records spawn derived authority records? Answer: Perhaps 
  it's better to have a CORC authority file?<br>
  &quot; All authority records would be included, i.e., name, conference, corporate, 
  series, subject.<br>
  &quot; There is no timeline in place.</p>
<p>VI. Kate Harcourt (Columbia University) reported on a project she and Becky 
  Culbertson (UCSD)<br>
  worked on together. They created an aggregator list intended to help catalogers 
  discover sources of MARC cataloging copy for individual titles in online databases 
  or from vendors. The site is a prototype, a model of what can exist. They want 
  the site to be interactive so that PCC libraries can annotate the list to indicate 
  that they have cataloged or created a record set, and they want the maintenance 
  of this resource to become a collective effort on the part of all PCC libraries. 
  The project was heartily endorsed by the meeting attendees. Can be found at: 
  <a href="http://library.ucsd.edu/%7Ebecky/AggregatorList.htm">http://library.ucsd.edu/~becky/AggregatorList.htm</a></p>
<p>BIBCO Operations Committee meeting, May 3, 2002 (Ren&eacute;e)</p>
<p>I. Opened with follow-up discussion of the previous day's meeting. A basic 
  issue and concern was harmony of serials and IR practice and implications for 
  training. The general opinion was that consistency is the most important aspect 
  of PCC's success in the area of cataloging IR's. Whether we follow monographic 
  or serials cataloging rules is not the issue; a consistent approach is.</p>
<p>A very important point was made: that the line is blurring between serials 
  and monographic cataloging. IR records require maintenance, so monographic catalogers 
  will have to become accustomed to the idea of touching a title more than once. 
  It would be shortsighted for PCC to try to make monographic catalogers' lives 
  easier by not subjecting them to serials fields. We need to accept that the 
  cataloging world is changing.</p>
<p>I have to say that much of the discussion about training monographic catalogers 
  to catalog IR's expressed the feeling that monocats, as a rule, were either 
  incapable of or unreasonably resistant to learning to use serials fields. And 
  this was among BIBCO, not CONSER, people. Perhaps it would be helpful for monographic 
  catalogers to think of all MARC fields as simply bibliographic fields, rather 
  than slapping labels on them.</p>
<p><br>
  II. Role of BIBCO Operations Committee in IR and at-large training<br>
  If this seems a little stream-of-consciousness, it was.</p>
<p>A. Most immediately, put Steven Miller's IR training presentation as is on 
  the BIBCO website and improve it over time. His presentation will also be posted 
  on the OLAC website.</p>
<p>B. There will be an IR informational session at ALA's BIBCO-at-Large meeting. 
</p>
<p>C. Judy Kuhagen, looking toward the future, would like to see IR training made 
  available to all, moving beyond the PCC world, and would like BIBCO training 
  to be free. </p>
<p>D. Alice Jacobs (NLM) suggested PCC work with library schools to stress the 
  importance of bibliographic skills. Suggested BIBCO Operational Committee members 
  attend library school meetings at ALA.</p>
<p>E. ALA has a new training/educational arm through ALCTS, and PCC has been working 
  on cooperating with this group for the past two years.</p>
<p>F. There's a need for more emphasis on subject cataloging and authority training 
  by PCC. Ruta Penkiunas (LC, retiring in one month) noted that SACO training 
  falls fully on a small group at LC, and she has presented a proposal advocating 
  using trainers, reviewers and subject specialists from PCC libraries. </p>
<p>G. PCC training has always assumed their trainees know the basics of cataloging 
  and have gone from there. They have found this not to be so, that basic cataloging 
  training is very often needed.</p>
<p>H. BIBCO liaisons are trainers/contacts within their institutions. Might they 
  be able to go out and train?<br>
  <br>
  I. Suggestion to partner with state and regionals library groups.</p>
<p>J. Because of the BIBCO Operations Committee's turnover (members serve 2-3 
  year terms), it would be difficult to provide continuity in training. So how 
  about a call to BIBCO members for people who would like to train? And for people 
  to send the Committee suggestions regarding training needs?</p>
<p>K. Practical point: PCC is part of LC and thus dependent on LC's budget, so 
  there are limits as to how much training it can provide.</p>
<p>III. Discussion of PCC's Strategic and Tactical plans: not a lot to report 
  here, as it was primarily an editing process. One enlightening remark: too much 
  preaching for core records has put people off, caused misunderstanding, and 
  harmed the PCC program, and PCC needs to avoid that approach.</p>
<p>IV. Review/editing of BIBCO Participants' Manual, ed. by Carol Hixson and Ana 
  Crist&aacute;n<br>
  Again, nothing much to report, as it was a section-by-section editing job, but 
  a few points:<br>
  A. It's a rather general document, not as detailed as the CONSER manual, and 
  never intended to be.<br>
  B. Timeline: hopefully the manual will be turned over to LC by ALA; then a final 
  review period via the PCC list; make the edits; all further revisions would 
  then be LC's, not Carol's, concern.<br>
  C. It is planned to incorporate the Manual into Catalogers' Desktop.</p>
<p>If you'd like to take a look at the documents I've mentioned today and learn 
  more about PCC's goals, go to: <a href="http://www.loc.gov/catdir/pcc/bibco/opco02.html">http://www.loc.gov/catdir/pcc/bibco/opco02.html</a></p>
<p><br>
  Announcements from John: </p>
<p>John will make arrangement for everyone to receive paper copies of the latest 
  OTNG report so that we can discuss it and what happens if we go out on RFP.</p>
<p>The ACCM will be reporting about Pinyin records of which there are two groups. 
  With &quot;chi&quot; in the 041 but not in 008 and there is a 987 $d r meaning 
  review (which is set back to u or c) making up one group. When chi is in the 
  008 we are NOT supposed to edit the record.</p>
<p>Regarding the Classification Web Sharon Farb is trying to find out more about 
  the correct licensing etc.</p>
<p>Stephen Davison has said that he likes the APAM Project Committee's recommendations 
  and wants to implement them.</p>
<p>Janice, Renee and John have also been working on the Frontera digital collection 
  of sound recordings.</p>
<p>OAI Sheet Music Project Data Mapping group made John their new chair. Congratulations!!!</p>
<p>Shared Program Steering Committee is discussing the single record technique 
  and whether it should be applied to monographic (non-database) cataloging.</p>
<p>John got clearance to order a new laptop for the department.</p>
<p> Submitted by Joan Flintoff LoPear May 10, 2002<br>
</p>
</body>
</html>
